when it comes to modern technology
minimalism is the name of the game and
the lightweight sleek devices we use
today look nothing like the clunky boxes
of yesteryear however there is still one
very noticeable limitation in humanity's
quest to build the most futuristic
looking gadgets possible bezels those
bulky frames that surround our screens
and that companies seem to be tripping
over themselves to get rid of not just
for a sexier aesthetic but also to cram
as much screen real estate as possible
into smaller and smaller packages but
whether we're talking about a phone a
monitor or a tv it seems like bezels are
still a necessity for the time being but
why to answer we reached out to
sashacron at asus a manufacturer of all
three of those product categories and
we'd like to thank him for providing us
with an assist on this video let's start
with the simplest reason that we still
have bezels the edges of modern lcd and
led displays need to be protected
because they're made up of multiple
layers that need to be sealed up somehow
i mean think of trying to take a triple
decker sandwich home from the deli
without wrapping it up in plastic first
but that's not the end of it beyond
structural protection and support it
turns out that bezels often house the
equipment that drives the display itself
such as circuits and traces that run up
to the screen and if you're talking
about a monitor these components are
often stored in the bottom bezel that's
why that particular one is usually quite
a bit bigger
now it is certainly possible to put the
components behind the display but this
can add a fair amount of thickness which
may impact the product's appeal to
consumers
but okay
hold on a second linus my smartphone has
super thin bezels and doesn't even have
a gigantic chin
why can't they just do whatever they're
doing in smartphones well part of why
phones get all the love is out of
necessity phones obviously have a
greater need to be more portable than
other everyday electronics so it makes
sense that quite a bit more work has
gone into eliminating phone bezels
versus the ones on monitors or tvs
and phones have the added benefit of
receiving extra structural support from
having the logic board and the battery
built in there's also an economic reason
profit margins on phone displays are
quite a bit higher than on monitors
laptops and tvs because panels get
produced in large batches which means
that you can make many more phones from
one batch than you can larger displays
also phones tend to be relatively
expensive for their size meaning that
manufacturers can invest more in
developing ways to reduce their bezel's
footprint
so some phones have their screens
partially folded around the edge so that
the part of the screen that needs
protecting is tucked underneath the
phone's back cover allowing for narrower
bezels in some cases this can actually
be clearly seen from the outside such as
with samsung's galaxy edge series other
times the panel drivers can actually be
folded behind the display something that
is much more difficult to do on a gaming
laptop you see quickly switching pixels
on and off to get high refresh rates and
fast pixel response times requires a lot
of current which means thicker wires or
traces are required to carry it now on
phones these factors tend not to matter
as much so manufacturers can get away
with using thin traces that are easier
to fold
not so on something like a gaming laptop
so all of this has meant that we look to
be on a slow march towards phones with
very very minimal bezels even phones
that are nearly all screens such as
xiaomi's concept mix alpha but as for
the larger displays
well it's certainly possible to make a
very thin bezel out of a transparent
material like glass so that it's less
obvious
but to get a truly bezel-free display
the most promising technology right now
looks like micro lead you can learn more
about that up here but it can get away
without using bezels because the
circuitry that drives the leds is
embedded in an extremely thin substrate
that forms part of the display itself so
it doesn't need the bezels either for
structural support or to hold electronic
components of course if you really want
a bezel-free display experience right
this second you could always just go out
and buy a hololens as long as you don't
mind looking like a total dork
speaking of buying
check out our sponsor drop.com the hd6xx
open back headphones are a mass drop and
sennheiser collaboration that has sold
over 70
000 units they're the all-time
bestseller on drop.com because they've
got the same great sound as the hd650s
but with a few updates they've got a
balanced mid-range and natural sounding
bass the parts are interchangeable with
others in the sennheiser series and
they've got a 1 8 inch plug for everyday
use with a quarter inch adapter for
professional use they feature
sennheiser's own warranty support and
new users who sign up on drop.com can
get 20 bucks off just by heading to the
link in the video description so thanks
for watching guys like this video check
out our other videos uh leave a comment
if you have a suggestion for a future
fast as possible and don't forget to
subscribe or you're never gonna see it
that'd be awkward